---
layout: page
title: Emotional Health
---

Many graduate students experience periods of stress during their time as
students, often with an impact on their overall emotional/mental health.  You
should recognize that this is a common part of the graduate student experience
and that a wide variety of support mechanisms exist to help you.  Nevertheless,
it is your responsibility to recognize if/when you need to seek out such
support.

First and foremost, you are encouraged to pay attention to your work-life
balance and ensure that you have activities in your life that help you take both
an emotional and intellectual break from your work as a graduate student.
Exercise has been demonstrated to have a positive impact on emotional health,
but many other activities are valuable in this regard (e.g. art, music,
meditation/mindfulness, spending time with friends, reading, cooking, spending
time outdoors, etc.).  

If you feel that you need professional support for your emotional health, you
are encouraged to make an appointment with University Health Services for either
one-on-one or group support.  They have staff with professional skills and
training to assist you that your advisor doesn't have.  Your emotional health is
a private matter and you have no obligation to discuss it with your advisor or
any other member of the CNERG community.  However, if management of your
emotional health can be facilitated by a change in your academic environment or
duties, it is your advisorâ€™s responsibility to provide a welcoming environment
for a conversation on these topics, while retaining your right to privacy on
such matters.
