---
layout: page
title: Health and Wellness
---

## Work-Life Balance and Boundaries

The CNERG community [values](mission_and_values.md) the health and wellness of
all of its members.  The biggest way that we support each other's health and
wellness is by establishing healthy work-life balance and boundaries.  While
each member of CNERG is free to work at any time, including initiating
communication with others, responses (on all platforms) are only expected during
reasonable business hours.  In addition, routine meetings will always be
scheduled within reasonable business hours.

Occasional exceptions to this can be arranged through mutual discussion, but
every member of CNERG is empowered to question whether the exception is
necessary.

## Emotional Health

Many graduate students experience periods of stress during their time as
students, often with an impact on their overall emotional/mental health.  You
should recognize that this is a common part of the graduate student experience
and that a wide variety of support mechanisms exist to help you.  Nevertheless,
it is your responsibility to recognize if/when you need to seek out such
support.

First and foremost, you are encouraged to pay attention to your work-life
balance and ensure that you have activities in your life that help you take both
an emotional and intellectual break from your work as a graduate student.
Exercise has been demonstrated to have a positive impact on emotional health,
but many other activities are valuable in this regard (e.g. art, music,
meditation/mindfulness, spending time with friends, reading, cooking, spending
time outdoors, etc.).  

If you feel that you need professional support for your emotional health, you
are encouraged to make an appointment with University Health Services for either
one-on-one or group support.  They have staff with professional skills and
training to assist you that your advisor doesn't have.  Your emotional health is
a private matter and you have no obligation to discuss it with your advisor or
any other member of the CNERG community.  However, if management of your
emotional health can be facilitated by a change in your academic environment or
duties, it is your advisorâ€™s responsibility to provide a welcoming environment
for a conversation on these topics, while retaining your right to privacy on
such matters.

The UW-Madison provides a number of resources to support emotional health:

* [UHS mental health](https://www.uhs.wisc.edu/mental-health/) providers
  understand the complexities of student life and offer an open, safe, and
  confidential environment to help students through issues that may interfere
  with their well-being, academic productivity, and happiness.

* The UW-Madison campus has a [Wellness](https://www.uhs.wisc.edu/wellness/)
  initiative promoting the overall wellness of the campus community.
