---
layout: page
title: CNERG Mission, Vision & Values
---

## Mission


To foster the development of new generations of nuclear engineers and scientists
through the development and deployment of open and reliable software tools for
the analysis of complex nuclear energy systems

## Vision

To have a positive impact on the ongoing development of peaceful nuclear
technology by improving the understanding of those technologies through modeling
& simulation

## Core Values


### Welcoming, Inclusive & Healthy Community


We all do our best work when we feel respected by our peers and our
contributions are valued.  Every member of CNERG is responsible for creating
this environment of mutual respect and value.  The group is made up of
individuals with a wide range of personal and educational histories.  Being
sensitive to these differences is an important part of our professional
development. The community also supports the healthy life choices of each its
members as they work to achieve their professional goals.

### Open, Reproducible & Maintainable Software

Our vision is best achieved by developing software tools that are accessible to
all, produce the same results over multiple invocations, and permit new
developers to easily contribute.  Every member of CNERG is expected to develop
skills to contribute to the development and maintenance of our software tools. 

## CNERG Research Philosophy

In addition to computational modeling in general, a defining characteristic of
CNERG research is the physics of nuclear reactions and the radiation that they
produce. This puts our work at the heart of nuclear engineering, more removed
from other fields of study than most other parts of nuclear engineering.

While there may be diversity among the projects being pursued within CNERG, a
common thread is a desire to improve the understanding of nuclear energy
systems. This leads to a research philosophy that puts us on the boundary
between methods development and systems analysis, delivering real analysis
capability. Where some research groups focus on theoretical methods development
with little regard for realistic problems, and others focus on using other
people’s computational tools to analyze systems, we focus on delivering new
capability to analyze real systems. This can include the development of new
methods and often requires the analysis of real systems to test the delivered
capability, but CNERG’s strength is in delivering robust tools that extend the
types of analysis that are available for nuclear energy systems.
